DEPLOYMENT.md, before:

# AllyCheck - Deployment & Production Guide

## Overview
AllyCheck is a production-ready web accessibility testing platform powered by Gemini AI and axe-core. This guide covers deployment, configuration, and best practices.

## Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- npm 9+
- Gemini API key (from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikeys))
- Vercel account (for deployment) or any Node.js hosting

## Environment Setup

### 1. Configure Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local`:
```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```

Update `.env.local` with your values:
```env
# Required: Gemini AI API Key
NEXT_PUBLIC_GEMINI_API_KEY=your_actual_api_key_here

# Optional: Application Configuration
NODE_ENV=production
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_NAME=AllyCheck
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://yourdomain.com

# Optional: Rate Limiting (requests per minute)
RATE_LIMIT_REQUESTS_PER_MINUTE=10

# Optional: Logging
LOG_LEVEL=info
```

## Deployment to Vercel

### 1. Install Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```
This includes `puppeteer`, `puppeteer-extra`, and `puppeteer-extra-plugin-stealth` for Vercel compatibility.

### 2. Connect Repository
```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel
```

### 3. Add Environment Variables
In Vercel Dashboard → Settings → Environment Variables:
- Add `NEXT_PUBLIC_GEMINI_API_KEY` with your actual API key

### 4. Configure Build Settings
Vercel auto-detects Next.js. The `vercel.json` file includes:
- Build command: `npm run build`
- API function memory: 1024 MB (for Puppeteer)
- API function timeout: 60 seconds (for scanning)

### 5. Deploy
```bash
npm run build
vercel deploy --prod
```

### 6. First Deployment Tips

**Browser Installation**: 
- Puppeteer automatically downloads Chromium on first deployment
- First deployment installs Puppeteer (~200MB)
- Subsequent deployments use cached version
- Build takes ~2-3 min on first deployment
- Subsequent builds take ~30-45 seconds

**Stealth Plugin**:
- App uses `puppeteer-extra-plugin-stealth` for bot detection evasion
- Improves compatibility with websites that detect automation
- Fallback to standard Puppeteer if stealth plugin fails to load
- Logs indicate which browser mode is being used

## Deployment to Other Platforms

### Docker Deployment
```dockerfile
FROM node:18-alpine
WORKDIR /app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm ci --only=production
COPY . .
RUN npm run build
EXPOSE 3000
CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

Build and run:
```bash
docker build -t allycheck .
docker run -p 3000:3000 -e NEXT_PUBLIC_GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key allycheck
```

### AWS, GCP, Digital Ocean
These platforms support Node.js applications. Follow their Next.js deployment docs:
- Set `NODE_ENV=production`
- Configure environment variables in platform settings
- Run `npm install && npm run build && npm start`

## Production Optimizations

### 1. Performance
- ✅ Image optimization enabled in `next.config.mjs`
- ✅ SWC minification enabled
- ✅ React Strict Mode enabled for development
- ✅ Puppeteer sandboxing disabled (production safety)

### 2. Security
- ✅ X-Content-Type-Options header configured
- ✅ X-Frame-Options SAMEORIGIN enabled
- ✅ X-XSS-Protection enabled
- ✅ Referrer-Policy strict-origin-when-cross-origin
- ✅ Rate limiting implemented (10 req/min default)
- ✅ Input validation on all endpoints
- ✅ API key in environment variables (never in code)

### 3. Logging & Monitoring
- ✅ Structured logging system in place
- ✅ Error tracking ready (integrate Sentry)
- ✅ Request ID tracking for debugging

### 4. Rate Limiting
Default: 10 requests per minute per IP. Configure via:
```env
RATE_LIMIT_REQUESTS_PER_MINUTE=10
```

**Note**: Uses in-memory store. For distributed deployments, replace with Redis.

## Troubleshooting Deployment Issues

### Issue: Build fails with Suspense error
**Solution**: ✅ Already fixed! The results page uses Suspense wrapper.

### Issue: "Could not find Chrome" on Vercel
**Solution**: ✅ Automatic! 
- `@vercel/browser` is now a dependency
- App auto-detects Vercel environment
- Chrome path is set automatically
- If still failing:
  1. Delete `.vercel` cache
  2. Redeploy: `vercel deploy --prod --force`
  3. Check logs for "Using Vercel Chrome" message

### Issue: Timeout on slow websites
**Configure in Vercel Dashboard** → Environment Variables:
```env
NEXT_PUBLIC_SCAN_TIMEOUT=90000
NEXT_PUBLIC_PAGE_LOAD_TIMEOUT=60000
```

### Issue: Gemini API errors
- Verify API key is correct in Vercel dashboard
- Check API is enabled in Google Cloud
- Ensure sufficient quota
- Check request logs for specific errors

### Issue: Function timeout (production)
**Default**: 60 seconds (configured in `vercel.json`)
- If scanning large pages, increase in `vercel.json`:
```json
{
  "functions": {
    "src/app/api/scan/route.js": {
      "maxDuration": 120
    }
  }
}
```
- Max allowed: 300 seconds (Pro plan)

### Issue: Build fails during first deployment
Usually due to `@vercel/browser` installation (~150MB)
- **Solution**: Increase memory in `vercel.json`:
```json
{
  "functions": {
    "src/app/api/scan/route.js": {
      "memory": 2048
    }
  }
}
```

### Issue: High memory usage on scans
Puppeteer + Chrome can use 200-500MB per scan
- **Solution**: Redeploy with higher memory:
```json
{
  "functions": {
    "src/app/api/scan/route.js": {
      "memory": 3008
    }
  }
}
```
- Check available memory in Vercel dashboard

### Issue: Previous Chrome not found error (Vercel)
**This is now fixed!** With `puppeteer-extra` and stealth plugin:
- Puppeteer Chromium auto-downloads on first deployment
- Stealth plugin improves compatibility
- Graceful fallback if stealth plugin fails
- Check logs for "Using puppeteer" or stealth plugin messages

## Maintenance

### Update Dependencies
```bash
npm outdated
npm update
npm audit fix
```

### Monitor Performance
- Check Vercel analytics
- Review error logs in `.next/` 
- Monitor API quota usage

### Backup Strategy
- Results stored in localStorage (client-side)
- Consider adding database for historical reports
- Implement export feature (already available as JSON)

## API Reference

### POST /api/scan
Scans a website for accessibility violations.

**Request**:
```json
{
  "url": "https://example.com"
}
```

**Response**:
```json
{
  "requestId": "scan-123456789",
  "url": "https://example.com",
  "violations": [...],
  "passes": [...],
  "summary": "AI-generated summary",
  "improvementPlan": "AI-generated roadmap",
  "stats": {
    "total": 15,
    "critical": 2,
    "serious": 5,
    "moderate": 8,
    "minor": 0
  },
  "performance": {
    "duration": 12345,
    "unit": "ms"
  },
  "timestamp": "2025-02-07T10:30:00.000Z"
}
```

## Feature Checklist

- [x] Accessibility scanning (axe-core 4.8.3)
- [x] AI explanations (Gemini 1.5 Flash)
- [x] WCAG 2.1 AA compliance checking
- [x] Progress tracking UI
- [x] Results dashboard
- [x] Issue filtering & details
- [x] HTML code snippets
- [x] JSON export
- [x] Responsive design
- [x] Dark mode
- [x] Rate limiting
- [x] Error handling
- [x] Structured logging
- [x] Production security headers

## Support & License

- **License**: MIT
- **Author**: AllyCheck Team
- **Documentation**: See README.md
- **Issues**: GitHub Issues
- **Contributing**: See CONTRIBUTING.md

## Credits

- [axe-core](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core) - Accessibility testing
- [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev/) - Browser automation
- [Gemini AI](https://ai.google.dev/) - AI explanations
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - Web framework
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) - Styling

Commit message:

Fix Vercel Chrome not found: Configure Puppeteer cache for serverless

DEPLOYMENT.md, after:

# AllyCheck - Deployment & Production Guide

## Overview
AllyCheck is a production-ready web accessibility testing platform powered by Gemini AI and axe-core. This guide covers deployment, configuration, and best practices.

## Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ 
- npm 9+
- Gemini API key (from [Google AI Studio](https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikeys))
- Vercel account (for deployment) or any Node.js hosting

## Environment Setup

### 1. Configure Environment Variables

Copy `.env.example` to `.env.local`:
```bash
cp .env.example .env.local
```

Update `.env.local` with your values:
```env
# Required: Gemini AI API Key
NEXT_PUBLIC_GEMINI_API_KEY=your_actual_api_key_here

# Optional: Application Configuration
NODE_ENV=production
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_NAME=AllyCheck
NEXT_PUBLIC_APP_URL=https://yourdomain.com

# Optional: Rate Limiting (requests per minute)
RATE_LIMIT_REQUESTS_PER_MINUTE=10

# Optional: Logging
LOG_LEVEL=info
```

## Deployment to Vercel

### 1. Install Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```
This includes `puppeteer` which automatically handles browser downloads and caching.

### 2. Connect Repository
```bash
npm install -g vercel
vercel
```

### 3. Add Environment Variables
In Vercel Dashboard → Settings → Environment Variables:
- Add `NEXT_PUBLIC_GEMINI_API_KEY` with your actual API key

### 4. Configure Build Settings
Vercel auto-detects Next.js. The `vercel.json` file includes:
- Build command: `npm run build`
- API function memory: 1024 MB (for Puppeteer)
- API function timeout: 60 seconds (for scanning)

### 5. Deploy
```bash
npm run build
vercel deploy --prod
```

### 6. First Deployment Tips

**Browser Installation**: 
- Puppeteer automatically downloads Chromium on first deployment (~200MB)
- Cache directory configured to Vercel's `/tmp` for write access
- First deployment: ~3-4 minutes (including browser download)
- Subsequent deployments use cached Browser (~30-45 seconds)

**Vercel Puppeteer Configuration**:
- App automatically sets `PUPPETEER_CACHE_DIR=/tmp/.cache/puppeteer` on Vercel
- Enables browser download in write-able directory
- Falls back to default behavior in local/other environments
- Logs show browser source (system Chrome or Puppeteer-downloaded)

## Deployment to Other Platforms

### Docker Deployment
```dockerfile
FROM node:18-alpine
WORKDIR /app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm ci --only=production
COPY . .
RUN npm run build
EXPOSE 3000
CMD ["npm", "start"]
```

Build and run:
```bash
docker build -t allycheck .
docker run -p 3000:3000 -e NEXT_PUBLIC_GEMINI_API_KEY=your_key allycheck
```

### AWS, GCP, Digital Ocean
These platforms support Node.js applications. Follow their Next.js deployment docs:
- Set `NODE_ENV=production`
- Configure environment variables in platform settings
- Run `npm install && npm run build && npm start`

## Production Optimizations

### 1. Performance
- ✅ Image optimization enabled in `next.config.mjs`
- ✅ SWC minification enabled
- ✅ React Strict Mode enabled for development
- ✅ Puppeteer sandboxing disabled (production safety)

### 2. Security
- ✅ X-Content-Type-Options header configured
- ✅ X-Frame-Options SAMEORIGIN enabled
- ✅ X-XSS-Protection enabled
- ✅ Referrer-Policy strict-origin-when-cross-origin
- ✅ Rate limiting implemented (10 req/min default)
- ✅ Input validation on all endpoints
- ✅ API key in environment variables (never in code)

### 3. Logging & Monitoring
- ✅ Structured logging system in place
- ✅ Error tracking ready (integrate Sentry)
- ✅ Request ID tracking for debugging

### 4. Rate Limiting
Default: 10 requests per minute per IP. Configure via:
```env
RATE_LIMIT_REQUESTS_PER_MINUTE=10
```

**Note**: Uses in-memory store. For distributed deployments, replace with Redis.

## Troubleshooting Deployment Issues

### Issue: Build fails with Suspense error
**Solution**: ✅ Already fixed! The results page uses Suspense wrapper.

### Issue: "Could not find Chrome" on Vercel
**Solution**: ✅ Automatic! 
- `@vercel/browser` is now a dependency
- App auto-detects Vercel environment
- Chrome path is set automatically
- If still failing:
  1. Delete `.vercel` cache
  2. Redeploy: `vercel deploy --prod --force`
  3. Check logs for "Using Vercel Chrome" message

### Issue: Timeout on slow websites
**Configure in Vercel Dashboard** → Environment Variables:
```env
NEXT_PUBLIC_SCAN_TIMEOUT=90000
NEXT_PUBLIC_PAGE_LOAD_TIMEOUT=60000
```

### Issue: Gemini API errors
- Verify API key is correct in Vercel dashboard
- Check API is enabled in Google Cloud
- Ensure sufficient quota
- Check request logs for specific errors

### Issue: Function timeout (production)
**Default**: 60 seconds (configured in `vercel.json`)
- If scanning large pages, increase in `vercel.json`:
```json
{
  "functions": {
    "src/app/api/scan/route.js": {
      "maxDuration": 120
    }
  }
}
```
- Max allowed: 300 seconds (Pro plan)

### Issue: Build fails during first deployment
Usually due to `@vercel/browser` installation (~150MB)
- **Solution**: Increase memory in `vercel.json`:
```json
{
  "functions": {
    "src/app/api/scan/route.js": {
      "memory": 2048
    }
  }
}
```

### Issue: High memory usage on scans
Puppeteer + Chrome can use 200-500MB per scan
- **Solution**: Redeploy with higher memory:
```json
{
  "functions": {
    "src/app/api/scan/route.js": {
      "memory": 3008
    }
  }
}
```
- Check available memory in Vercel dashboard

### Issue: "Could not find Chrome" error (Vercel)
**SOLUTION:** Puppeteer cache configured for `/tmp` directory on Vercel

If you encounter this error:
1. Verify Puppeteer is configured correctly:
   ```bash
   npm install puppeteer@24.37.2
   ```
2. Redeploy with cache clear:
   ```bash
   vercel env pull
   vercel deploy --prod --force
   ```
3. Check Vercel deployment logs for "Using Puppeteer browser" message
4. Verify function memory is set to at least 1024MB in vercel.json

If issue persists:
- Check Vercel function logs for exact error
- Ensure `/tmp` directory is writable (Vercel guarantee)
- Try increasing API function timeout to 90 seconds in vercel.json

## Maintenance

### Update Dependencies
```bash
npm outdated
npm update
npm audit fix
```

### Monitor Performance
- Check Vercel analytics
- Review error logs in `.next/` 
- Monitor API quota usage

### Backup Strategy
- Results stored in localStorage (client-side)
- Consider adding database for historical reports
- Implement export feature (already available as JSON)

## API Reference

### POST /api/scan
Scans a website for accessibility violations.

**Request**:
```json
{
  "url": "https://example.com"
}
```

**Response**:
```json
{
  "requestId": "scan-123456789",
  "url": "https://example.com",
  "violations": [...],
  "passes": [...],
  "summary": "AI-generated summary",
  "improvementPlan": "AI-generated roadmap",
  "stats": {
    "total": 15,
    "critical": 2,
    "serious": 5,
    "moderate": 8,
    "minor": 0
  },
  "performance": {
    "duration": 12345,
    "unit": "ms"
  },
  "timestamp": "2025-02-07T10:30:00.000Z"
}
```

## Feature Checklist

- [x] Accessibility scanning (axe-core 4.8.3)
- [x] AI explanations (Gemini 1.5 Flash)
- [x] WCAG 2.1 AA compliance checking
- [x] Progress tracking UI
- [x] Results dashboard
- [x] Issue filtering & details
- [x] HTML code snippets
- [x] JSON export
- [x] Responsive design
- [x] Dark mode
- [x] Rate limiting
- [x] Error handling
- [x] Structured logging
- [x] Production security headers

## Support & License

- **License**: MIT
- **Author**: AllyCheck Team
- **Documentation**: See README.md
- **Issues**: GitHub Issues
- **Contributing**: See CONTRIBUTING.md

## Credits

- [axe-core](https://github.com/dequelabs/axe-core) - Accessibility testing
- [Puppeteer](https://pptr.dev/) - Browser automation
- [Gemini AI](https://ai.google.dev/) - AI explanations
- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - Web framework
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) - Styling
